# Assistive Watch Senior Design

Assistive Watch Senior Design was an EOY project completed during my senior year at Syracuse Univeristy. I collaborated with 3 undergraduate students spread between computer and eletrical engineering disciplines. The project timeline lasted a full semester and we held a symposium at the end of that quarter to showcase our design projects. 

Here is the abstract our team put together:

Derived from the five senses people obtain (sight, hearing, taste, smell, touch), hearing is fundamental towards one’s survival and safety. Being able to identify whether a noise around is something to be alarmed or not is something to consider. With the increasing number of people in the hard of hearing community there needs to be an increase in the number of electronic devices that use assistive technology which would help disabled people attain that helper factor in their lives. Unfortunately, even though technology is growing rapidly, it is distancing itself from those disabled people (more specifically, hearing-impaired individuals). That gap in technological consideration needs to decrease. This paper outlines a possible solution addressing assistive technology as it aligns with aiding those hearing-impaired. Deaf Assist Watch provides advanced technology that would capture audio around the watch and address the user wearing the watch about the event. The assistive technology would be developed into a watch taking advantage of the flexibility and portability in the design. The watch would integrate machine learning algorithm which considered the ESC-50 dataset to train the network on specific noises in a specific environment. The sounds considered in a independent environment include alarm clocks, car horns, and sirens (emergency vehicles). Upon detecting the sound, the watch will display a graphical image within the watch and identify an image close to the sound.